Migrate security documentation to its own chapter (#4283)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/security/securing-jenkins.adoc

---
layout: section
wip: true
---
ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../resources]
ifndef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../../resources]
:toc: left
endif::[]

= Securing Jenkins

> In the default configuration of Jenkins 1.x, Jenkins does not perform any
> security checks. This means the ability of Jenkins to launch processes and
> access local files are available to anyone who can access Jenkins web UI and
> some more.

Reviewer: Replace with a modified version of the text from "managing security"?
```suggestion
As of Jenkins 2.0, many of the security options were enabled by default to
ensure that Jenkins environments remain secure unless an administrator
explicitly disables protections.
This means the ability of Jenkins to launch processes and
access local files are only available to those who can login to Jenkins.
```

Securing Jenkins has two aspects to it.

* Access control, which ensures users are authenticated when accessing Jenkins
  and their activities are authorized.
* Protecting Jenkins against external threats

== Access Control

You should lock down the access to Jenkins UI so that users are authenticated
and appropriate set of permissions are given to them. This setting is
controlled mainly by two axes:

* *Security Realm*, which determines users and their passwords, as well as what
  groups the users belong to.
* *Authorization Strategy*, which determines who has access to what.

These two axes are orthogonal, and need to be individually configured. For
example, you might choose to use external LDAP or Active Directory as the
security realm, and you might choose "everyone full access once logged in" mode
for authorization strategy. Or you might choose to let Jenkins run its own user
database, and perform access control based on the permission/user matrix.

> * https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Quick+and+Simple+Security[Quick and Simple Security] --- if you are running Jenkins like `java -jar jenkins.war` and only need a very simple setup

Reviewer: Doesn't seem to apply any longer, since the default since 2.0 is to be secured initially.
```suggestion
```
